# Earning you way to a career in data science
This page is intended to showcase a detailed curriculum that one could follow over the course of 18 weeks to acquire the necessary skills to become a very useful and practical data scientist. This curriculum is not meant as a replacement to machine learning, statistics, and computer science university Masters and Ph.D programs that take a more theoretical and abstract approach to their respective disciplines. You will not be magically transformed into one of the world's premier data scientists nor be able to do rigorous proofs of different machine learning concepts. This curriculum is focused on transforming an individual to becoming the most practical, useful, and hireable to businesses that have use cases for advanced analytic intelligence. After course completion, you should be highly valuable to most any business that values data-driven decision making and have a good foundation for exploring in greater depth many other data science topics. 

# Approach to Learning
The main component of knowledge acquisition will be a time-tested source, the book. Reading textbooks can give you a very thorough, detailed and organized aggregation of the current knowledge you are trying to acquire. The many dozens of online data science courses that have come online in the last few years from coursera, edx, udacity, udemy, etc... have greatly expanded the ability of any individual to quickly acquire data science skills. Many of these courses do suggest books as companion sources but most don't enforce the reading of the material. Generally, a video lecture can only capture a small fraction of what is written in a textbook. This is not to disparage online courses, as I have taken over a dozen of them myself and have learned a great deal but a good textbook can really widen the base of your knowledge quite a bit more if read in conjuction with most online video-lecture-based courses. There will be a big focus on reading textbooks and answering questions at the end of the chapter.

Of course, with data science being a very hands-on discipline, each topic in the curriculum will have programming assignments designed to implement theory and application taught in the textbooks.

# A Generalized Order of Learning Verbs
To synthesize the above section into learning verbs, below is a list, in order of how the data science skills of the curriculum are suggested to be acquired. This is just my suggestion but this is how I would teach the material. 
1. **Reading* - Reading of new material is done first before any lecture. For most material, a good book exists that can cover the material.  
2. **Listening* - Listening can refer to the more traditional lecture where only the most important/difficult concepts of the book are reahashed. This time could also be used as a question and answering session instead of any lecture. Online videos can be watched in replacement of a lecture. Blog posts and online forum discussions can also be good.  
3. **Doing* - Doing refers to attempting problem sets and programming assignments on your own with limited help. Struggling without help is a great way to learn.  
4. **Collaborating* - Working with others on problem sets or programming assignments is invaluable to the learning process. Seeing solutions from instructors or peers can be very helpful.  
5. **Remembering* - Covering a large amount of topics in a short amount of time is a recipe for quickly forgetting. Techniques such as spaced repetition can help you remember and reinforce previous concepts.  

# Week 0: Prerequisite Knowledge
Before getting started on the main curriculum, some minimum assumptions are made: That you have some background in programming and some background in statistics and can do basic algebra